# Belly-Button-Challenge
Module 14 Assignment, Java and Interactive Visuals

This module was another great adaptation of concepts that we learned in class, as well as being practical and applicable for future use. This module concerned JavaScript and interactive visuals, used to portray various quantitative and qualitative data. Once again, I partnered with Chris Rahal and Nick Ortega to complete the module, with CHAT GPT for clarification regarding some concepts and lines of code in the assignment. 

The initial part of the code required creating a metadata function, using the sample data as the identifier, to be used later to structure the final bar and bubble chart; but it could be used for any type or version of discrete graph. First, we used the D3 library and JSON properties to read the data from the provided URL. Next, in sequential order, the first distinct section of the code involved defining the necessary data variable, filtering the metadata, and then using D3 again to select the pertinent data from the panel with the given, specific ID tag.  Finally moving down the code we appended each key and value pair, from each iteration in the data along with the necessary subheader to conclude the initial portion and the introductory function. 

The second part of the assignment was the explicit creation of the bubble and bar chart and all of the individual components required for the synthesis. The initial process was the same as you used D3 to read in the necessary values from the JSON.  The function was clearly defined using the same sample from the starter files, but this differs from the first function as we defined the data from the samples portion rather than the metadata. The next was the most pertinent as we filtered the data variable we just created and used it to select the x and y values, along with sample values needed for the markers to create and define the trace values. Next, we developed and defined the necessary components for the layout. After defining the necessary components, you simply plot the chart using Plotly. For the bar chart the process was similar as we first sliced the data to select the ten required ID’s, followed by the definition of the trace and layout quantitative and qualitative components and the creation of the chart using Plotly. 

The final component of the assignment, another function, was used to create the interactive components of the chart: it was once again preempted by the reading of the JSON file. For this part of the assignment we filtered the data using the names portion of the resources folder, rather than using the metadata and the samples portion in the first two potions respectively. The critical component of this section was the implementation of the create dropdown function, using D3 again to select the necessary components and filter the data using the necessary Java properties we were able to append the correct information to the interactive dropdown menu. The final few lines of code were dedicated to building the metadata and charts using the filtered first sample we extracted from the sample JSON, and finally allowing for the ability for the two charts to be altered based on future implementation of newly acquired and selected data. 
